README.md, before:


# <p class="heading" style="font-weight : 600">Online <span style="color : rgb(34 197 94)">Vegetable</span> and Fruit Marketplace (VegFru)</p> 




<br />

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?label=Video-DEMO-YT(1)&style=for-the-badge&url=https://youtu.be/zFLqVK3Hoj4?si=tMIkCFJlVriK9wnz)](https://youtu.be/zFLqVK3Hoj4?si=tMIkCFJlVriK9wnz)

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?label=Video2-YT(2)&style=for-the-badge&url=https://youtu.be/I5zjIsTgkP8)](https://youtu.be/I5zjIsTgkP8)

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?label=Vegfru-client&style=for-the-badge&url=http://vegfru.vercel.app/)](http://vegfru.vercel.app/)

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?label=Vegfru-vendor&style=for-the-badge&url=https://vendor-tau.vercel.app/)](https://vendor-tau.vercel.app/)



Welcome to the Online Vegetable and Fruit Marketplace project! This platform is designed to connect customers with nearby vendors selling fresh fruits and vegetables. With an easy-to-use interface, customers can search for vendors on a map, view product listings, and place orders securely through a payment gateway.

[Click here to view the flow of VegFru](https://www.figma.com/file/Hw0DDRTkaWtTBYIWJwBNTS/A-Online-Vegetables-%26-Fruits-Marketplace-(VegFru)?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2FHw0DDRTkaWtTBYIWJwBNTS%2FA-Online-Vegetables-%2526-Fruits-Marketplace-(VegFru)%3Ftype%3Dwhiteboard%26node-id%3D0%253A1%26t%3DHbiEzStvoB4NFmNX-1)

```
Note: Fully Mobile Responsive
```

## <p style="font-weight : 600">App Features:</p>

| **Customer Features**                                              | **Vendor Features - Create and Manage Your Store**                         |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **1. Search for Nearby Vendors on a Map:** - Easily locate nearby vendors using an interactive map interface. | **1. Store Creation:** Vendors can create and customize their online store within the platform. They can set up the store with branding, logos, and store information.  |
| **2. View Vendor Profiles and Product Listings on the Map:** - Access detailed vendor profiles and browse product listings directly within the map interface. | **2. Inventory Management:** Vendors access a robust dashboard for efficient inventory management. They can add, edit, or remove product listings, update quantities, and set pricing.     |
| **3. Place Orders and Pay Securely Through Stripe:** - Seamlessly place orders for desired products from vendors using the robust and secure Stripe payment gateway. | **3. Order Processing:** Vendors can efficiently manage orders, review details, and prepare deliveries directly from the dashboard.                         |
| **4. Track Orders in Real-time:** - Track order status, details, and payments in real-time from confirmation to delivery. | **4. Insights:** Vendors gain access to daily income, customer totals, and order data, providing valuable business insights that aid in understanding store performance.  |
| **5. Email Confirmation After Successful Order:** - Receive an email confirmation immediately after successfully placing an order. |                                                                


## <p style="font-weight : 600">Technologies Used</p>

This project is built using modern web technologies, including:

| Technology         | Choices                               |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------|
| Frontend           | ReactJS/NextJS                        |
| UI Framework       | ChakraUI/Tailwind                     |
| Backend            | NodeJs/ExpressJS                      |
| Database           | MongoDB                               |
| Containerization   | Docker                                |
| Location Services  | Mapbox API (Location-based searches, map integration, Direction API, Distance API) |
| Payment Gateway    | Stripe Checkout                       |
| Caching            | Redis (To reduce DB requests, optimize performance, and reduce response time) |
| Webhooks           | Used for saving payment details in the database |
| Email Notifications| Sent using Gmail SMTP server and Nodemailer |
| Access Token & Refresh Token     | Implemented with Axios interceptors for improved user experience |


## <p style="font-weight : 600">Client Side Screenshots</p>

<div style="display: grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr); gap: 10px;">
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1681939802/Screenshot_2023-04-20_025705_ngbkau.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1683207623/Screenshot_2023-05-04_000200_ozr4z1.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011481/Screenshot_2023-05-25_161424_nrwgx5.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1681939802/Screenshot_2023-04-20_025717_mjhf6k.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160646_ybqkjh.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1696497245/Screenshot_2023-10-05_144156_fd4b4h.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1682114151/Screenshot_2023-04-22_032216_ibbtbu.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1682114151/Screenshot_2023-04-22_032159_uvthxc.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160632_oc4i45.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160639_yzqu5r.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160525_jnykd3.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160549_kno8un.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
</div>

## <p style="font-weight : 600">Vendor Side Screenshots</p>

<div style="display: grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr); gap: 10px;">
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1684181208/Screenshot_2023-05-16_013018_q5rya0.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1684181207/Screenshot_2023-05-16_013034_cjpato.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1684181356/Screenshot_2023-05-16_013835_bsmk5b.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >

</div>


<br />

## <p style="font-weight : 600">Contact</p>

If you have any questions or feedback, please contact me at amritmaurya2014@gmail.com, visit my website : <a href="https://amritraj.vercel.app">click here</a> We'd love to hear from you!

Commit message:

rate limiter implemented using redis

README.md, after:


# <p class="heading" style="font-weight : 600">Online <span style="color : rgb(34 197 94)">Vegetable</span> and Fruit Marketplace (VegFru)</p> 




<br />

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?label=Video-DEMO-YT(1)&style=for-the-badge&url=https://youtu.be/zFLqVK3Hoj4?si=tMIkCFJlVriK9wnz)](https://youtu.be/zFLqVK3Hoj4?si=tMIkCFJlVriK9wnz)

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?label=Video2-YT(2)&style=for-the-badge&url=https://youtu.be/I5zjIsTgkP8)](https://youtu.be/I5zjIsTgkP8)

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?label=Vegfru-client&style=for-the-badge&url=http://vegfru.vercel.app/)](http://vegfru.vercel.app/)

[![Website](https://img.shields.io/website?label=Vegfru-vendor&style=for-the-badge&url=https://vendor-tau.vercel.app/)](https://vendor-tau.vercel.app/)



Welcome to the Online Vegetable and Fruit Marketplace project! This platform is designed to connect customers with nearby vendors selling fresh fruits and vegetables. With an easy-to-use interface, customers can search for vendors on a map, view product listings, and place orders securely through a payment gateway.

[Click here to view the flow of VegFru](https://www.figma.com/file/Hw0DDRTkaWtTBYIWJwBNTS/A-Online-Vegetables-%26-Fruits-Marketplace-(VegFru)?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Ffile%2FHw0DDRTkaWtTBYIWJwBNTS%2FA-Online-Vegetables-%2526-Fruits-Marketplace-(VegFru)%3Ftype%3Dwhiteboard%26node-id%3D0%253A1%26t%3DHbiEzStvoB4NFmNX-1)

```
Note: Fully Mobile Responsive
```

## <p style="font-weight : 600">App Features:</p>

| **Customer Features**                                              | **Vendor Features - Create and Manage Your Store**                         |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **1. Search for Nearby Vendors on a Map:** - Easily locate nearby vendors using an interactive map interface. | **1. Store Creation:** Vendors can create and customize their online store within the platform. They can set up the store with branding, logos, and store information.  |
| **2. View Vendor Profiles and Product Listings on the Map:** - Access detailed vendor profiles and browse product listings directly within the map interface. | **2. Inventory Management:** Vendors access a robust dashboard for efficient inventory management. They can add, edit, or remove product listings, update quantities, and set pricing.     |
| **3. Place Orders and Pay Securely Through Stripe:** - Seamlessly place orders for desired products from vendors using the robust and secure Stripe payment gateway. | **3. Order Processing:** Vendors can efficiently manage orders, review details, and prepare deliveries directly from the dashboard.                         |
| **4. Track Orders in Real-time:** - Track order status, details, and payments in real-time from confirmation to delivery. | **4. Insights:** Vendors gain access to daily income, customer totals, and order data, providing valuable business insights that aid in understanding store performance.  |
| **5. Email Confirmation After Successful Order:** - Receive an email confirmation immediately after successfully placing an order. |                                                                


## <p style="font-weight : 600">Technologies Used</p>

This project is built using modern web technologies, including:

| Technology         | Choices                               |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------|
| Frontend           | ReactJS/NextJS                        |
| UI Framework       | ChakraUI/Tailwind                     |
| Backend            | NodeJs/ExpressJS                      |
| Database           | MongoDB                               |
| Containerization   | Docker                                |
| Location Services  | Mapbox API (Location-based searches, map integration, Direction API, Distance API) |
| Payment Gateway    | Stripe Checkout                       |
| Caching            | Redis (To reduce DB requests, optimize performance, and reduce response time) |
| Rate Limiting     | Utilized to control request rates, implemented as middleware in ExpressJS to prevent excessive requests and ensure server stability |
| Webhooks           | Used for saving payment details in the database |
| Email Notifications| Sent using Gmail SMTP server and Nodemailer |
| Access Token & Refresh Token     | Implemented with Axios interceptors for improved user experience |


## <p style="font-weight : 600">Client Side Screenshots</p>

<div style="display: grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr); gap: 10px;">
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1681939802/Screenshot_2023-04-20_025705_ngbkau.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1683207623/Screenshot_2023-05-04_000200_ozr4z1.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011481/Screenshot_2023-05-25_161424_nrwgx5.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1681939802/Screenshot_2023-04-20_025717_mjhf6k.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160646_ybqkjh.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1696497245/Screenshot_2023-10-05_144156_fd4b4h.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1682114151/Screenshot_2023-04-22_032216_ibbtbu.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1682114151/Screenshot_2023-04-22_032159_uvthxc.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160632_oc4i45.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160639_yzqu5r.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160525_jnykd3.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1685011326/Screenshot_2023-05-25_160549_kno8un.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
</div>

## <p style="font-weight : 600">Vendor Side Screenshots</p>

<div style="display: grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr); gap: 10px;">
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1684181208/Screenshot_2023-05-16_013018_q5rya0.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1684181207/Screenshot_2023-05-16_013034_cjpato.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >
  <img height="150" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/amritrajmaurya/image/upload/v1684181356/Screenshot_2023-05-16_013835_bsmk5b.png" alt="Mobile Responsive" >

</div>


<br />

## <p style="font-weight : 600">Contact</p>

If you have any questions or feedback, please contact me at amritmaurya2014@gmail.com, visit my website : <a href="https://amritraj.vercel.app">click here</a> We'd love to hear from you!
